.TH BUK 1 "September 2025" "Buk 1.0.0" "Buk Manual"
.SH NAME
buk \- a simple command-line tool for managing backups.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIbuk\fR [-v | --version] [-h | --help] <command> [<args>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Buk is a simple command-line tool for backups, similar to Git but focused
on backups rather than versioning. It is easily integrable into scripts and
provides a straightforward way to manage file and directory backups.

The tool operates by maintaining a backup directory where copies of files and
directories are stored. Users can save, delete, and restore backups as needed.
The default backup directory is \fI/home/username/.buk_backups\fR but can be
configured to any location.

Before using \fBbuk\fR, the current directory must be initialized with the
\fBinit\fR command. The backup directory path can be customized using the
\fBconfig\fR command.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
-v, --version
Prints the \fIbuk\fR version that was installed.

If --help is also given, it takes precedence over --version.

.TP 4
-h, --help
Prints the synopsis and a list of all available commands.

If --help is also given, it takes precedence over --version.


.SH COMMANDS
.TP 4
\fBinit\fR
Initialize the current directory for use with \fBbuk\fR. This command must be
run before any other \fBbuk\fR operations can be performed in a directory.
.TP 4
\fBconfig\fR <path>
Configure the path of the backup directory. If not specified, the default
backup directory is \fI/home/username/.buk_backups\fR.
.TP 4
\fBsave\fR <file|dir> [<file|dir>...]
Save the specified files or directories to the backup directory. Multiple
files and directories can be specified in a single command.
.TP 4
\fBdelete\fR <file|dir> [<file|dir>...]
Delete the specified files or directories from the backup directory. Multiple
files and directories can be specified in a single command.
.TP 4
\fBrestore\fR <file|dir> [<file|dir>...]
Restore the specified files or directories from the backup directory to the
local directory. Multiple files and directories can be specified in a single
command.

.SH EXAMPLES
Initialize the current directory:
.IP
buk init
.PP
Configure a custom backup directory:
.IP
buk config /path/to/backup/directory
.PP
Save a multiple files and directories:
.IP
buk save important_file.txt directory1/
.PP
Save entire directory:
.IP
buk save .
.PP
Delete a backup:
.IP
buk delete old_file.txt
.PP
Restore files from backup:
.IP
buk restore important_file.txt directory1/

.SH SEE ALSO
cp(1), rsync(1), tar(1)
